Welcome back and in this lesson we're going to look at how we can get elements by class name so we know
that when we ply classes to an element attribute we can apply.
So let's call this one highlight
so we know that we can apply Klaas's to any element and they don't actually all have to have the same
tag names.
So I can have a number of different elements and I can simply add a class to it.
And that allows me to actually distinguish and grab that information from our Web page.
So let me just simply go out here and I'm going to.
So any ones that are going to highlight class are going to have a background color as well so that we
can actually be able to distinguish them from the rest of the HTML elements.
So let's go back and refresh the page and then we can see now that the ones that are in yellow are the
ones that have the class highlight so we can loop through those as well.
So just last week last time we grabbed the elements by class name by tag name let's do so we'll call
it our highlight list.
So instead of get elements by tag name all we need to do is update this.
And by class name and then we need to specify the class.
So the class was highlight so just was we did get element by ID.
We don't need any other additional We don't need to include the Daut we don't need to include the hash
forget element by ID.
We're able to simply select that element.
So now we've got a list and just like before going to get rid of this one here.
We know that we've got this highlight list and we can loop through all of those values and get rid of
some of this excess content here because we don't really need to make use of it.
So we know that and also need to update this one to actually grab that element by id output.
So let's update that as well.
So documents get element by id and let's grab that output value and then let's set that age to malware.
So this will still work but we're giving ourselves the ability to update it with Highlight list.
So let's let's grab that and update list to now be highlight list and I need to take care of those spaces.
We don't want to have any spaces within our script.
So let's go back and refresh it and see if that works.
So we are able to state it.
So from highlight list we've got Test 1 and test 2.
And obviously there was no content available within those ones.
So now if I try to list that out I'm actually not able to get those values because these are a different
type of element.
They don't have any inner text attached to them.
And if I inspect them I can see that they're not actually going to contain because these ones are input
fields.
So this is one of the downsides is because one of the things is the elements are not all going to be
the same so they're not going to have all the same characteristics.
So let's go take a look at this.
So we've got our highlight list.
And let's go take a look at what we're returning within the console.
So we see we've got access to all of this information.
So let's go into highlight less and let's go into that input where we've got you r l u r l and we can
see that we're able to grab this and we've got a number of attributes here.
So we don't have thought we can grab out the value if we want to.
So if we want to pick up the value So let's look stood out within the console console and dry so that
we can get more information about what's contained within the highlight list and we specifically want
to look you Earl.
So let's open that up.
And remember before we had looked at type so we can do the same thing for here where we can scroll all
the way down and we can look at the type of element that it is.
So we know that this is a u r l and basically we know that for you or else we can have a different condition.
So instead of actually looking for the inner text we can look for one that has inner value.
So what I want you to do now is to pause the video add in some content within your input field within
your text area and instead of just looping out the inner h t l that we know is contained within those
two divs.
I want you to also when you're looping out the content contained within these elements by adding a condition
and here to be able to pick up the values of those two elements and add them in into the output of the
aged hymnal.
So go ahead puzzle video and try that out and show you the solution coming up.
So if you on an opportunity to try that out.
And in this case we know that we can apply a condition.
So just does what we did before.
There's a number of options that we have at hand.
So we know that with inner text.
So if I do something like this then if it's actually looking for the inner text let me show you what
happens now.
And if I refresh it and if I do the Click Here we're able to grab that inner text.
So basically if this condition is true if there's a value that's being returned there so then that basically
means that it's true.
And we know that we can utilize that with an output.
So all we have to do is do it.
Else if.
And we need we can apply a different condition where we can look to see if this one has a value and
if it does have a value.
So instead of inner text all we have to do is update value here.
And as I said there was a number of ways to do this.
We could look at the type as well.
So we could have different conditions looking at the type.
But basically this one will work as well and we can see that this one right now it does have an inner
value
but we don't have we're not actually picking up the value here that's contained within this input.
We're getting the value from the textarea so that one is working but we're not picking up the value
here.
So let's go back to our console and let's see actually what's happening here.
So let's list it highlight list and we know that this input is its input.
You are el
So I've got an idea there for you or else let's actually see what happens.
So you are l and we don't have any value associated with it.
So if we do this value we actually don't see anything in there.
And if I add in a value in there.
Now let's try it again.
We are picking up the value.
So what's what's gone wrong here let's see what's going on here as well so we're going to grab it within
that other format.
So we know that this is actually going to be the first one.
So it's 0 object.
And what's actually happened is that I haven't actually include it so I need to update my value for
x.
So that was a little bit of debugging.
And now when I go back and refresh it.
So we were picking up the value so everything was working right.
That only thing was that we weren't including it within the loop.
So that was just a little bit of debugging on the code and you have to be careful when you're copying
and reusing code from before that you do make the proper changes in order to accommodate your new functionality.
So there were a number of ways to solve this and to pick up the elements by class.
We could have also had the condition to check to see the type as well.
And this way worked.
So because we've got the four elements we're able to test it out.
So always.
Also make sure that you test your results and that they are coming back as expected before you launch
it live within your web applications.